We're going to be doing something a
little different today.
Let me actually set the um the stream
categories for once.
That works.
Good.
So, here's the plan for today.
I'm not going to promise this is going
to be a super long stream.
Uh we're going to see how I'm feeling
today.
But I figured it would be fun to do a
little bit more CUDA dev.
And
with Puffer 4,
I obviously did a whole bunch of CUDA
for that.
However,
Puffer really doesn't require heavy
matmul kernels.
You know, it's a standard matmul and
then a whole bunch of activations and
loss functions that have to be fused
together.
That was really the main thing, plus
some stuff with CUDA streams and other
bits.
Um so, I was pretty much able to do the
mat the vast majority of that just
knowing how to write C and writing C in
a .cu.
I mean, obviously, I also know at some
level how a GPU works, much more so than
uh your typical RL PhD does not
understand that a GPU is not just a CPU
but faster. Like, that is kind of the
bar in the field at the moment.
Um you can see this where there are a
whole bunch of people trying to write
GPU accelerated very, very branchy
environments, and then they end up
writing a bunch of code that ends up
being slower than just running it on the
CPU.
So, I had that going for me, but I
really didn't know any of the CUDA
semantics.
Um I still really don't understand the
actual mechanisms by which you sync
things.
Um
I really don't understand the
architecture of GPUs down to the level
of like different levels of
synchronization and caching.
And I also just generally have the sense
that things could be done much more
simply and just as fast as they are now.
And I'd like to be able to make Puffer
truly, truly simple. And to do that, I
need to understand quite a lot more
about this and rely a lot less on shitty
language models because if they're as
bad as they are for the other things I
do, I guarantee you they're terrible for
this stuff as well.
Um I looked at this briefly and
uh no, it is today I'm doing this, but I
will I will merge that PR after this,
uh after maybe tomorrow or whatever. Um
so, what I want to do here is I looked
at this.
Uh to give you context, I really do not
like leak code. I've never done the
thing formally. I've done a few of the
problems and I think it's a terrible way
to learn programming because it's really
more solving puzzles using programming
as your tool rather than building stuff
and thinking about how to make things
simple. It really there isn't much
overlap with real stuff.
But these look like real problems,
right? These look like things that you'd
actually want to do, not just tricky
puzzles.
Um I haven't really taken any look at
this beyond that, so we'll start here.
I'll just work my way through some stuff
and we'll see which of these we do.
Okay, so they give you the launch
function
inside of a CUDA file, so you can just
write here, yeah?
Okay, so this is where already I need
Wait.
per block
Yeah, I need the thread
the uh the thread ID and then it's just
going to be
like star C equals
It's basically just going to end up
being star C.
Well, we could do this. C idx
A idx plus
idx
But I need to know the thread semantics.
So, let me go check one of my own bits
of CUDA.
This should give you a sense of how
little I uh I actually know about the
formality of stuff.
That's the point, Anish.
Is that uh y'all can kind of just learn
some of this stuff with me.
I'm sort of at a point where I have a
very good foundation to be able to do
this stuff very quickly, but I don't
know any of the actual semantics.
Okay, this is what I was looking for.
Block index, block dim, thread index.
So, I mean, the only thing that I have
to figure out here, there are two
things, right? One is the calculation of
this index, and two is how this launch
function works, whether this is doing a
single op or this is doing multiple ops
per um
per call.
I think it is going to just be since
this their simplest problem, it's just
probably going to be their simplest
possible case.
But, let's see. Blocks per grid.
Yeah, so this is This looks to me like
this is just one op each.
So,
this is probably the exact same semantic
as this.
So, int index
block
idx.x
block idm.x plus thread.
.x. Oh, and it even gives you syntax
highlights.
It's nice.
Invalid auth token.
Are you [ __ ] me?
Is down for me?
Are you kidding me? I go to do this [ __ ]
and it's down?
But, didn't keep me signed in, which is
kind of weird.
They give you 800s. And Niche, why the
hell do you need an 800
by a [ __ ] ad kernel? Come on, man.
Oh, that's funny. They have all the
these, but it's
Yeah, we're just going to do CUDA,
obviously.
Okay, so the thing I want to understand
from this is I want to understand these
built-ins.
Oh, yeah. They literally just did this
like this, but then where
I just want to know all the permutations
of these. Okay, here it is.
Here's this.
Each parallel invocation is referred to
as a block. Sure, right?
And then you get block index.x.
But is there like a Y and a Z as well?
I just want to know all of the different
built-ins that you have here.
Hey Liberty.
Yeah, and this is exactly what we just
did.
Um
Oh, except
in this case this is for a single block.
So, they did the most minimal possible
example.
A block can be split into parallel
threads.
Sure.
Each parallel invocation of add is
referred to as a block.
The set of blocks is referred to as a
grid. I'm just trying to figure out
which of these terminologies correspond
to
uh which of these correspond to
differences in the hardware versus not.
You have a grid that's made up of
blocks.
Okay, so this is now the number of
blocks
which make up the grid. And then one
thread per block, right?
So this is like the dumbest possible
parallel example, right?
parallel threads instead of parallel
blocks.
Okay, so use the thread index. Cool.
No, GPU programming is different.
CUDA isn't it just C but fancier?
Well, Anish, this is the problem, right?
So,
the the problem is that a GPU is not a
CPU. It's not just a CPU but fast.
But you need to understand the
difference in the hardware
and how the
the additional CUDA semantics correspond
to differences in hardware.
Okay, so now here you put all the blocks
into one thread. Sure.
I think that there are some semantics
here, like there's a max number of
threads per block you can do,
but fine.
Sure.
This is reasonable.
And then I did this as
Which thread will operate on the red
element?
This is block two
Use the built-in block dim.x for threads
per block.
Okay, so this here, this just gets us to
the kernel that we just wrote. Except uh
we also had to we had to guard for um
if you don't have a exact number of
items, right?
Like this is if blocks times threads
doesn't if you're Hang on. If your
number of elements is not a clean
multiple
of the uh number of threads per block.
Yeah, and then this is exactly what they
did. So, they literally just their first
exercises they just converted this into
one.
And then this pattern is going to be
very common.
n + m - 1 / m
So, n is
n is the number of
items total
and then you add the number of threads
per block.
You add the number of threads per block
minus one
and then you divide by the number of
threads per block.
And this gets you seal
on the uh the number of blocks you need
and then you have to guard here.
Okay.
I mean that makes sense, right?
Okay, yeah. How does this correspond to
the hardware?
This is actually something I would like
to understand. I don't actually
understand how
I know these are different parallelism
units, but I don't know precisely how
these correspond to the hardware.
The threads can communicate and
synchronize.
But like
Mhm.
We're going to get
I think we can probably trust LLM with
super basic questions today, right?
Where's my
As a GPU warp stream? I haven't seen
that actually.
Okay, so these are both software.
Stream multiprocessors of warps and
cores.
A thread block is assigned to a single
streaming multiprocessor.
A streaming multiprocessor can host
multiple blocks simultaneously.
Okay.
Threads are grouped into warps.
Warps are fundamental scheduling and
execution unit.
Single instruction multiple threads,
okay.
All threads in a warp execute the same
instruction at the same time.
Well, so this right here alone, right?
This already tells you
why you are not just writing arbitrary
[ __ ] in CUDA.
You're not executing the same
instruction at the same time, this
doesn't work.
Zero overhead switching to hide latency.
SM has a warp scheduler that picks ready
warps to issue instructions to each
cycle.
Oh, okay, cool. So this is kind of like
um
like the end pool thing we did. It's
basically we implemented a GPU-like
scheduling architecture on a CPU, sure.
Individual threads map to CUDA cores or
other units like tensor cores.
But execution is mad uh managed at the
warp level.
One warp's 32 threads run concurrently.
You can only have
1024 threads per block.
And you can have
2048-ish threads per SM.
One op per block, one thread per block.
Okay, so this gives you 31 idle lanes.
Lower occupancy
if block limit per SM is hit before
thread limit. Ah, okay, see? So, what
it's going to try to do is it's going to
pack
it's going to pack your blocks into a
streaming multiprocessor, so you will
get some parallelism out of it.
But,
it doesn't work like you just can get up
to 2048 blocks. It's The limit on blocks
and threads is different, right?
One block limits you to one SM.
The rest of the GPU is idle.
Okay, so
I mean, there are many There are several
different levels being introduced
already, right?
So, you can have
First of all, you have your main loop
here.
Right? You have this function itself.
Um you could do one element of work or
multiple elements of work in here,
right?
And then you have Then you get to choose
how many threads per block you want to
use.
And then you want to and then you get to
choose how many blocks you want.
Now, what I don't understand from this
is
the trade-off between these two numbers
and how this
affects what is scheduled on the GPU. I
don't precisely understand this yet.
Right? Because I understand if you have
32 threads,
that's good cuz you saturate a warp, but
then why do you want more than 32
threads?
Is it because there's a scheduling
difference between having a bunch of
threads and having a bunch of blocks?
Is it because
how many blocks can you put per SM?
SMs support up to 64 to 128 active
warps.
Okay, so
if I just set a bunch of threads,
it doesn't use the full GPU. They get
allocated to a single streaming
multiprocessor.
But that might be too much work for this
thing, right?
If the compute load is too big.
Okay, so blocks blocks get packed into
blocks. The threads are always on the
same streaming multiprocessor, which is
why they have these concurrency these
synchronization operations.
Um
Blocks get packed into
uh streaming multiprocessors.
So then I guess the thing I don't
understand here is why would we why
would we want to go
above 32 threads per block?
Higher occupancy and better latency
hiding.
It cannot fulfill the SM to full thread
and warp capacity.
Max threads, max resident blocks.
But then 32 * 32
It is 1024.
Okay. So, if you do 32
then it actually doesn't fit.
Okay. GPUs hide long latencies by
switching between a ready warps.
More active warps per SM.
It can write the same
size.
Write the same size to the memory.
What?
>> It can only write the same size.
I don't know what you mean by that,
Liberty.
More warps per block improves latency
hiding in the block.
Okay, so there is some scheduling
shenanigans going on then.
Better tolerance to fix register
pressure or to register pressure and
first limits.
Okay. I think that's enough to begin.
Like that's enough for now.
Um
That's enough for now to like begin
this.
So
we have block index times block dim plus
thread index, right?
And I'm going to grab this.
This going to take a little while to
remember this. And then this is the
exact pattern, right? Which is the total
end plus the number of threads per
block, which we just have hard coded to
256 minus one divided by threads per
block. That gives you blocks per grid.
You get the reds per block, and then you
have to guard, right?
Cool.
That's quite a complexity difference
there.
Ah, so this is what I was wondering
about, right?
I was wondering if there is a dot y.
So
Okay, so this is just a convenience,
right? That you can pass a dim three.
Yeah, you can pass a dim three instead
of passing an int.
And then you can access dot x and dot y,
right?
Pointers to memory on GPU.
Um
lock print
lock
Trying to think what the output here
corresponds to.
Is this not
This corresponds to a chunk of the
output, doesn't it?
Uh no, wait, there is a way to do this,
isn't there?
Well, I have no idea how to do this
because
Doesn't this require some fancy
synchronization?
>> Okay, this is what it is. So, it's just
it's actually not that bad, I think. I
think you just need a little bit of
shared mem.
We're not going to do like the um
We're not going to do fancy comms and
stuff today. I mostly want to do this,
and then then we're going to get to do a
bunch of the element-wise stuff.
I do want to learn a few of the
synchronization primitives.
So, this is actually good.
Um
I haven't looked at like
this type of thing I haven't looked at
since early in PhD.
I don't want kernel code for this. I
just want the diagram of this.
Oh, wait. Hang on.
We're allowed to read from the same
memory at the same time.
Right?
Hang on. We're allowed to read from the
same memory at the same time. Okay.
Okay. Hang on. Um
This is this is deceptive, right?
Because there's actually it's set up in
this blocked way so that you can
optimize the crap out of it, but the
simple solution to this is actually very
easy.
Uh ch-
I need to draw this stupid thing.
M N K
Yeah.
So
I K.
And then what is the out What is this
loop over? How's this written?
Going to be over the output, right?
Blocks per grid,
grids per block.
Okay, but it's a loop over the output,
so element
If we take element M
I K.
Okay, so the sum is over N.
Sum is going to be over N.
And then it's going to be
C
>> And then this is going to be K and M, I
think.
Wait, is this K and M or M and K?
A plus
Wait, hang on.
Block index times block dim.
I don't know which of these is which.
Let's say it's K and M.
Okay.
And then we just do
And then this one is going to be I times
A plus
M.
Okay, I might have the indexes
backwards, but it's something like this,
I think.
Okay.
Let me go get the actual
wiki um formula.
I need the damn like these things are so
freaking annoying to like get the uh
the subscripts right on, right?
Okay, so C
this is what we need.
So, let's just match the let's just
match to this, right?
It'll be easier.
We'll call this I.
Yeah, we'll call this I, we'll call this
J.
Um
I is less than K and
I think that this this thing is uh wrong
as well, so we'll figure this.
Uh do we use lowercase K here?
I think we do.
First of all, do I even have these
correct?
No.
This is not correct.
Uh oh wait. No, I think is this okay? I
think this actually might be okay.
Okay, and then the out the output is dim
m by k.
And
then c i j
Wait. Hang on.
No, it's i times k.
Cuz this is the row.
a i times k. No, hang on.
It can't be i times k.
No, j.
i times k plus k. Here it is.
And then b is going to be
Uh this one has your iterating
You're iterating over rows and you have
the same column.
Iterating over rows and have the same
column.
I always hate dealing with the indexing
of this [ __ ] This just like hurts my
head.
Like conceptually this makes sense, but
then when you're having to track the
[ __ ] indices and reconstruct them at
the same time from the thread blocks,
it's annoying.
Right, like conceptually this is super
simple, right? You're literally just
saying this element here
here.
You're saying that this element here
is equal to this element here
times this element here
with these vectors, right?
You're just summing all of this.
You're summing You're summing like this
is element one here, and then maybe this
is element four,
right? And you're just summing these
into this.
That's a basic ass matmul, but then of
course uh the thing that's annoying here
is not even the CUDA. The thing is just
the um
the indexing.
Okay, let's make sure that I actually
have these indices correct.
Is it the row or the column? Hang on.
They did K.
Why did they flip it on me, man?
They did. They flipped it, didn't they?
Hang on. I'll just run this one more
time to make sure I didn't just it
wasn't just this.
No, okay. We I This is How are we still
out of bounds is the question I have.
Um
That means I'm not understanding these
launch arcs.
Cuz this this should alone should catch
the out of bounds.
And they made
K is the
Oh, wait. K is the column dim.
No, but that's J.
Column dim should be J, so this is
correct.
And then this is should be correct.
Wait.
I guess you submit and then they give
you full tests.
I see. So, they give you full tests when
you submit.
Wait, 1 2 3 4 5 6.
And they gave you a column vector.
So, then that's going to be what? 2 by
2 by 1?
Two rows, one column. Yeah, output.
And then apparently the second element
is wrong.
>> Wait. Okay, times
I times
K times I.
Plus J.
I don't think that would do it, would
it?
That's going to pass the test either
way. Hang on.
>> This should be I unless they're saying
because it's X they use column
for X.
Why is this K? Why do they do it this
way?
Right, this is
Output call Wait.
Why do they map output columns to here?
Am I reading this wrong? This is output
columns, right?
Yeah, this is output columns, so this
should be J, this should be I.
Then this should be correct.
Um
Where the Wait, where are the
submissions?
It doesn't show me the test output.
Lovely.
Well, I need to submit it so I can see
the freaking test output.
Wait, four.
And
18 is 32, right?
What did we get? 20?
That's the right dimension to be going
over.
Wait, how the hell is this thing
returned 20?
I times K.
Now, maybe I'm doing the rows wrong.
Cuz this would evaluate to zero.
For this one, right?
So, I
the J.
multiplied by
Uh, wait. No.
Dummy.
The input dimension for A
A is M by N, so this is N.
And then the dimension of B
Uh, this one is correct.
uh, the same number of columns for each
map, which is bad, obviously.
See if this works.
I don't want to get stuck forever on
like solving um indexing things like
this. I want to actually learn proper
CUDA semantics today. So, we're not
going to do a ton of these like
fiddly ones, and we're going to do a lot
more um
a lot more ones that introduce concepts.
Cuz this is not particularly productive,
right?
Execution timed out. Are you [ __ ]
me?
Let me try that again. There's no way
that's my fault, right?
Daily GPU usage limit reached.
Are you [ __ ] me?
Uh, well, this platform is ass.
Um
Do we just do these locally?
Wait, did it just fail on a run or
submit?
Yeah, it's not even going to let me do
anything, is it?
These aren't bad problems, but their
harness is [ __ ]
Like look at this, right?
Even if I screwed up the indexing here,
there's no way this should time out.
Like Like obviously, this is a a naive
matmul.
But naive matmul should be an acceptable
solution for the second [ __ ] problem
marked easy. Because matrix
multiplication is not easy.
It's in fact like
optimized matmul is the entirety of
basically the entirety of
a lot of the time.
Optimized map mole and variations on it.
Like you can get incredibly fancy with
this.
Per month, lovely.
Wait, 10x higher rate limits.
Wait, for $6.99 a month
they give you 10x higher rate limits.
When they literally just gave me
like
30 seconds of GPU compute.
So, they give you 5 minutes of GPU
compute
for $6.99 a month.
Yeah, guys, your platform [ __ ] sucks.
Prove that.
We'll still run out of credits
immediately.
They need to be running the CUDA code on
the user browser client.
Yeah, they're assuming that you don't
have a GPU, but that's still not an
excuse. Like they should just have all
the instances hot.
And like it literally should not take
more than
it shouldn't take them more than a
couple seconds
to compile something this small, submit
it, and get you the results back.
I don't know what the [ __ ] they're
doing, but it's not something smart.
Well, what do we do with this now
because
I could try Somebody linked to me this
other one.
This one doesn't seem as good, though.
>> They literally have a um
prefix someone here.
Yeah, the entire point of these newbie
platforms though is that they kind of
don't.
This doesn't look as good as the
problem, right?
Yeah, these problems are nowhere near as
good.
I mean these are the problems you would
want to be fair.
Maybe I'll do this. Maybe we'll get this
and we'll just do the um the basic runs.
Instead of their submissions which
probably run a bunch more tests.
This platform is very bad, though.
Uh let me think. Do we have any
alternatives?
If we had the tests, I could just do
this whole thing locally.
It would be much easier.
Oh, this See, this is actually kind of
funny. Look, they have
They actually have the uh the linear
recurrence. Like this is a core op to
puffer right here.
They have a bunch of these things with
checks, but then the thing is they don't
actually have
They don't even have like They just give
you the problems. They don't give you um
They don't give you different methods or
approaches. It's just like this
leaderboard. This is not
This is not like a good way to introduce
this.
Hey, Peru.
Well, I can run this locally.
But they don't ex- I assume they don't
expose the tests, right?
Can I just run this locally?
They don't have um
Oh, wait.
This is the challenge set.
Do they just have it here?
Oh, they do actually have the tests in
here.
This whole thing is kind of gross to be
honest.
Oh, they also they don't have all the Do
they have all the problems on here?
Oh, wait. Hang on. They do.
I mean, but they've kind of just have
some test cases like
this whole thing doesn't really do
anything.
I could kind of just as easily go like
Mhm.
Like this doesn't actually have any
information introducing concepts. It
literally just has a set of problems.
So far so good, Peru. I'm still like
exhausted from it, so I'm doing some
other random stuff.
Um
I'm trying to think what I can do to
just like
I want to learn some CUDA primitives,
and I don't think that just solving
these does much for me
without having um
There's got to be at least some
direction behind this.
It's kind of funny in the sense that
they have a lot of the um
They have a lot of the things that we do
and
offer four.
But then they just have
just have test cases.
I was hoping for at least some sort of
introduction to um
Okay, maybe we can do something from
here and set up something locally.
>> The tile.
No.
Isn't that there um
No, [ __ ] that.
This code is good. All this stuff that
they do on top of it is like
what the [ __ ]
C++ is on the road. Why is it Python and
Julia first?
I should probably change the uh the
titles.
We're not messing with lead GPU.
Was bad.
Bring higher-level devs over to CUDA
ecosystem.
Yeah, but the higher-level devs just
need to stop being [ __ ] stupid and
learn this some low-level dev.
Like you look at the thing and it's
obviously way more complicated than just
learning CUDA.
I don't know. This like high-level
abstracted dev thing is just complete
brain rot.
>> Wait, what are we implementing here? A
1D stencil.
Sum of seven. Okay.
1D So, 1D
Okay, it's a mean filter, whatever, or
sum filter, whatever.
Sure.
block dim plus two times radius to
shared memory.
Compute block dim output elements.
Write block dim.x output elements to
global memory.
A little of radius elements at each
boundary.
Do you end up tuning the grid? Uh so, we
have a contributor PR that's open per
rule
for
doing that plus more
on the um
on the min grid operation.
But like they added plus 1,000 lines of
code in the process of doing that. So
I'm just trying to learn some low level
because I have a feeling that we have
Now myself and all contributors are just
using LLM's too much for [ __ ] and
writing a whole bunch of bloated code.
I'm just trying to figure out if I can
learn a little bit more like see if we
can get some of that stuff and some of
those perf optimizations without ruining
the code base.
Because I mean very quickly otherwise
puffer lib becomes useless because the
code just becomes the same bloated horse
[ __ ] as everybody else's writing.
You see like even experienced devs just
get [ __ ] over by these stupid models.
It's like if you're too tired to do it
correctly, don't have the LLM do it.
Just like rest and then do it properly.
I think the only real way to do this
stuff.
Read index.
What is this? Have
I don't under- like
Never
I don't think you need to learn
stencils. I'm not learning stencils. I'm
This is an example for CUDA.
They're just using this operation as an
example to introduce um synchronization
primitives.
Oh, okay. So, here's what they're doing.
They're
Each input element is read seven times.
Okay, so it's better to read this into
shared mem.
Okay, so you just you notice that
everything has that each element gets
read seven times.
And then you want to read it into shared
memory.
Because then reading from that is going
to be much faster than reading again
from this.
Each block needs it.
Okay, I don't exactly understand the
boundary handling condition here, but
sure.
Apply stencil.
Okay, and then they're going to make the
point that this doesn't work.
Wait, I don't This doesn't make any
sense to me how this is written, right?
Because every single
every single thread is reading into
shared memory from
device memory.
But, yes, I understand that this is for
boundary conditions, but I don't
understand exactly for this operation
what this is doing.
Like, is this not just supposed to be
zero padded?
Okay, this I understand though, right?
This is just the um
from shared mem. So,
Okay, I don't understand this at all
because
Would somebody explain to me how this is
not just still reading everything? Like,
this looks like it's now reading the
entire sequence in every thread.
Oh, I see.
Wait, no. No, I don't. Look, it's
everything. There's no conditional here,
man. Look.
There's no conditional here.
I don't see how this is doing it once
per block.
The total work is done once per block
cuz of how the loads are distributed.
Only the first three threads
execute
This loads they share the work of
loading it into shared mem.
And then this is going to be missing the
sync threads obviously.
Okay.
I understand this.
I wasn't
I understand this. I wasn't understanding what this was doing. So
understanding what this was doing. So
this is each thread is only if you
ignore this like this edge condition
here,
each thread is
only loading one element
each thread is only loading one element into shared memory.
into shared memory.
And then it applies this
from um
And then this is the normal operation
that you would expect but applied over
shared memory.
Where's the thing that um that Peru
linked me?
Which of these is shared mem?
Okay, L1 cache plus shared mem.
>> How much shared memory can you have?
Oh, 21.
Okay.
So, you actually have some pretty large
caches, I see.
Because
I see. So, you basically you cache
everything once.
Now, why do you have to do a threaded
load of this?
It seems weird that you have all the
threads like each requesting one item.
Okay, there's no They don't have a
primitive for this type of a thing.
It's
Hmm, interesting.
Maybe it gets patched based on which
Yeah, that's that's weird to me. Okay.
So there isn't Like I would think there
would be like a global copy up, but
actually the load itself has to be done
parallel like this.
With this thing.
Okay, that's not that complicated
though.
96 megs.
Wait.
Is that
You have hundreds of these SMs. Yeah.
Is it hundreds?
Uh, yeah, it is, right?
Wait, 32 threads.
Okay, I don't actually know how many it
is.
Good men plus L1 data cache.
Okay, so you actually don't have a ton.
You have
128 kilobytes.
Okay, so you have 21 megs across the
whole GPU of L1.
So, for any like
So, for any block
Ah, okay. I see.
So,
this is the key thing, right? Like
Your SM is per block.
So, then you have to figure out how many
Does this vary per GPU?
Does vary per GPU.
Only 20 1024 per block.
32 blocks.
Oh, that's interesting.
That's interesting. So, okay, there's a
whole bunch of trade-offs going on here,
right? Because like even for a very
simple kernel then
right? If you're thinking about memory
pressure
uh the threads in one block are going to
load from device memory
into shared memory.
the block the um
the blocks are going to get packed
together onto a single SM
and the shared memory is per SM. It's
not per
it's not per block.
So
you get better scheduling when you have
more of those blocks, but you're going
to increase the memory pressure.
And then you have the size of the actual
sequence you're looking at. Okay.
So, that very quickly gets quite
complicated.
Right? That very quickly gets quite
complicated, I can see.
And this is why you get people doing
like kernel search crap.
I'm sure there's much more to it. So,
it's like do it empirically.
But you can probably figure out some
like reasonable guidelines for stuff.
Okay.
That's useful to know.
That is useful to know.
I think that they just [ __ ] try them
all, don't they, for real?
Some algo. Okay, maybe they can prune it
a little bit.
Each kernel has a pattern, so they have
hints throwing through.
Yeah.
And then the more complicated it gets,
the more you have to rely on these
heuristic algorithms instead of
understanding what the [ __ ] is going on.
But this already, like just know just
understanding what this corresponds to
in better in the hardware now.
That is already like I can already do a
lot with that.
That's what I had it everything ported
to before we went to full CUDA.
We probably need to figure out a better
way to do our error handling because
right now a lot of stuff can fail
silently.
device count device get device
device properties
Multiple host threads can share a
device.
Single host thread can manage multiple
devices.
tools training, okay.
What else is there?
Compute capabilities and
This is funny. These are super old
slides.
From for me.
For me device.
Thread
block index block. You also have grid
dim.
You only do These are 3D and we showed
one dim.
Okay, so they just give you three
dimensions in case you need them.
And then you can pass I guess you can
just pass either um
dim threes or you can pass uh just
integers.
Well, Peru, before you go down that
rabbit hole, why don't you at least do
like some sensitivity to see how much
juice you're actually getting out of
them, right?
Like how much perf we actually how much
perf you actually get from that? Because
when torch goes and does it and you run
compile, they return you slower code
than their eager mode.
Almost every time.
So whatever torch is doing is kind of
horse [ __ ]
>> Hey guys, what resources would you
recommend on here?
New CUDA programming just implemented
attention mechanism.
Um, if you implemented attention in raw
CUDA, you're not that new.
You're second year student in AI and and
I mean, you can look at the stuff we do
in Puffer. Um,
so
I as I sort of if you if you go to the
very start of this stream, you'll see
the intro I gave where the Puffer forest
use of CUDA, it's kind of non-standard
in the sense that um we are mostly
fusing activations and loss functions
and the kernels are very tiny. So,
mostly it's about minimizing mem
pressure and optimizing loads and such
and keeping the code relatively simple.
We don't really need to do a ton of
stuff with um custom matmuls yet unless
unless anybody can figure out how to
make them actually efficient.
Uh thus far in RL, there are zero
attention implementations that are worth
using simply because of how slow they
are for the models that we are looking
at.
Um
I don't know whether I to be fair, I
don't know whether that's fundamental or
uh that can be gotten around with good
engineering.
I will say that the
it's very very difficult to get kernels
to be fast when they're that small.
So, uncertain.
See if we're real.
Is that videos Liberty or is it just
like does it is there like a written
guide I can go through and like work
through some stuff?
Uh I would prefer Well, we'll see how
C++ this is versus
We'll see.
>> book for Manning.
I don't really want to just watch a
12-hour video, Liberty. I don't think
that's a useful way to learn [ __ ]
It's like mostly going to just be a
waste of my time.
Optimizing
make a product
over some then the
I mean, it very much depends on what
your goals are.
I tend to just completely ignore
LinkedIn in general because
that platform is a mess.
Um
If you want to be good, that's what I
can speak to. If you want to be good,
you should just take on projects that
are slightly outside of your current
understanding, and then learn what you
need along the way to do them.
Oh, okay. So, this is This is the thing
that everybody quotes when they're being
[ __ ]
The number of times I've heard something
something Amdahl's law therefore the RL
has to be slow is like
Yeah.
>> How can I contribute to puffer lib? I
want to make something on the library,
try to
understand now
experience.
Yeah, we've got discord.gg/puffer.
We've got docs on puffer.ai,
and then the Twitter link there is
x.com/jswarez.
As
my articles tab there has a whole bunch
of guides
for how to get started with RL.
And don't forget to start the pop repo.
Another project on GitHub. It helps us
out a lot. All free.
Started, yep.
Today it's Sunday. I'm kind of chilling
and just learning some uh
like filling in some gaps in knowledge I
have.
I mean, popper 4 is already out and it
has a ton of
fancy cuda in it, but I think we could
probably make it faster and simpler.
Huh.
Just break the data into a bunch of
chunks and then do it on a bunch of
Okay.
That's nice and simple.
We do that already.
But the main thing I could think of for
that
>> Zero copy can be used in place of
streams.
Ah, so this is what this is what George
Hotz was going to try to do with a whole
cluster, right?
It was basically going to try to get a
whole cluster
onto one address space.
Um, I was trying those, man, and
uh, the models were not good enough to
be usable.
It's mostly a waste of time.
I was trying to get something that would
at least like have a model that would be
usable and not like take forever to
spin, but they just weren't really
usable.
>> Yeah, then just don't
don't mess with the models a ton, right?
Like go learn stuff.
128-byte
aligned segments.
Okay, so there are
32-byte alignment is a thing apparently,
and then there's 128-byte alignment as
well.
>> I showed them it's going to be a good
section here.
If multiple addresses of memory request
map into the same memory bank, the
accesses are serialized.
Memory access addresses map to memory
banks.
>> Okay.
Here we get a more complicated
Oh, no, this is what we wrote, right?
We literally we wrote this exact thing
before.
Oh, actually look, they have an
optimization here.
So instead of accessing
Interesting, they do the sum here and
then they write it once.
Okay.
Okay, I can think about I can think that
way.
So this is slightly better than what we
wrote.
unoptimized multiplication is slightly
more optimized than I than ours was.
Okay, so they only did it on the input
there.
Yeah, this doesn't even cover shared
memory at all, does it?
Yeah, that like Nvidia already has like
a pretty nice Like this is a Like look,
docs.nvidia.com/cuda.
But yeah, this is like twice the speed
but almost.
See, this is why the um
the GPU stuff was kind of crap.
It doesn't actually have this. It just
gives you problems.
This is the type of thing that you want.
So, it's a little bit odd because I
think this is assuming
Hang on, this is assuming that you have
make I think this is like for matmuls
like square matmuls of the same size,
right?
Wait, what?
What's this matrix mul written for?
YouTube channel.
I'm looking for content I can work
through, not just like like not just
watch.
Like what I'm doing this is much more
active me having to go through and
understand these things.
So,
I'd like to be writing some code as
well, but the GPU ended up just being
crap.
There's some bits with the launch
arguments. I don't quite understand with
this, but this does make sense.
Shared memory in matrix mode C equals
AAT.
Huh.
You store both.
That's funky.
Now, the issue with this is like you're
never going to actually write kernels
this way because Tensor Cores exist.
Right?
Async copy from global mem to shared
mem.
Ooh.
Oh, come on. And they immediately start
like
And these are also um
These are not a term bad.
>> Red and block heuristics.
What was Pradeep was talking about?
Number of blocks in a grid should be
larger than the number of
multiprocessor.
Multiple active blocks per
You can already do quite a lot just with
this, right?
1920 is near perfect.
Yeah.
>> Okay, so you want to keep your arms low.
Interesting.
>> Yeah, so this is a key thing here.
The
uh the efficiency loss
of having a branching code.
So if you never actually take the
branch, you don't lose efficiency.
So it's actually run time.
You know, so if you have like a debug
path or like a whatever path that
doesn't actually trigger, that shouldn't
cost you anything.
Wait, when you say it's a custom
embedding,
is that learnable or is that um
is that like a learnable part of the net
or is that just like an encoder on the
obs space that's just fixed?
Well, if it works it works and we'll
look at it later.
>> What's your goal for
>> today? I'm just learning some CUDA
stuff. I'm filling in knowledge gaps.
I'm trying to learn at least a few
things that'll help me clean up bits of
the puffer code and um
to generally have a better idea cuz we
keep getting contributions from people
that are
like
smart but very heavily using LLMs with
CUDA
and um
it makes a big mess.
learnable
Yeah, I said yes.
That's like
Fine for now. Keep pushing results and
we'll see um
we'll look at it.
>> Okay, it's 1:33.
What do we do next? Um
I mean, that definitely gives me some
ideas for things.
I think right now we've got a bunch like
here.
If I just go to Let me see it real
quick. I have one idea of like a thing
that might be um
might be bloated.
Yeah, we're going to be able to merge
some of this stuff, for sure.
The good news is the code's actually not
that bad. Like these sections I worked
very hard to keep them fairly clean.
Like this is actually readable and
editable.
The GPU um garbage just
like
I looked at it and they had So, the
problems they have are good.
But they just give you the problems.
There's not like a you know, implement
this using this or whatever. It's just
this thing. They give you no additional
information.
So, it's pretty much just some stubs and
some tests.
Which means that this is not actually a
useful learning resource really.
And then also their um their limits are
so garbage. It's like useless.
Okay.
Well, I feel like I've gotten a bunch of
stuff. Um I do want to learn the loads
actually. Let's Let's go figure out
where those loads are.
Easiest thing to do with just Peter to
assert that it's a multiple of four in
here and then delete this.
Funny how this is barely more readable
than the assembly.
That's a hell of a sentence right there.
Jesus.
Cool op dump.
I mean, this is still very tough to
read.
It's actually really not that bad, is
it?
I think this chunk here is probably
fine.
I'm not going to be working too late.
Um
How about I go get one more cup of
coffee?
You see if my brain works for um the
environment that I was playing with
the other day.
We'll see if I can do that.
If not, maybe I'll go play with um the
sample environment that I wrote.
Sample environment would be really nice
to solve.
Well, give me a few minutes. I'm going
to grab myself a coffee either way.
And then we'll go decide what's next.
I suppose um
>> [clears throat]
>> Hey Vault.
I suppose that's enough CUDA for now.
Um do you have inferno stuff Vault or if
not I'm going to mess with the maze
stuff today.
We should get you a box.
Did I give you access to the boxes
Vault?
We should just get you a 4090 dev box
you can play with.
What helped though?
Then you got a lot more time.
All right.
Well, let's say that once you have that
I there's just like a simple EULA that
says you will not do bad things on my
cluster.
Um so one-page doc.
Uh you sign that and I'll get you a box.
And then you can do uh you can just have
like a a persistent 4090 for as long as
you're doing the the inferno stuff to
play with if that sounds good.
>> 14 hours for the same thing that would
be two on a proper machine. Yeah.
Which is why we should just get you a
machine. I mean, you've done more than
enough work to merit a access. Sadly,
we're supposed to have a whole bunch of
machines and three of them just don't
work.
Um
Yeah, don't ever buy Intel hardware.
They'll just do 20K plus worth of
damages and uh you know, then you then
you get [ __ ] nothing.
Um I guess then what I'll do now, if
you're going to be occupied for the next
day, I'll spend about an hour at the
moment fixing up the maze environment if
I can do it
if I can do that.
And then I'll call it for the day and
I'll enjoy my Sunday afternoon. If we
could get the maze environment cleaned
up, then at least that puts us in a
decent spot to start thinking about 5.0.
So, I'd be happy with that.
Um so, Vault, they shipped two
consecutive generations of chips that
just segfault.
Like
um
So,
yeah, I literally have
I had four or five of my machines like
this. I RMA'd like five times and
eventually now I only have three
machines that are broken.
But, it's just like
they don't replace the whole system.
They only just They replace the chip and
then they give you another one of the
same chip. And half of their chips are
broken.
So, it's just completely stupid. I will
never buy another Intel chip.
Okay. It literally did drop 25% in a
day.
I'm pretty sure it dropped 25% on the
news of those chips being flawed.
It's like possibly the worst fuck-up in
chip manufacturing history.
In fact, two of the chips are um
Two of the chips are like the S-series
chips, which are like supposed to be the
best chips in the batch and they charge
you extra for them.
And I I spent like another 4 hours
yesterday like why the [ __ ] can't I
install Linux and my a [ __ ] And then I
look and I say, "Wait a second. That's
the segfault code. Oh, yeah, we're
failing to install the OS cuz the CPU
faults. Great."
Okay, so I need to actually just figure
out how I was doing this. I think
I think I probably have enough in me to
just fix this today and then we'll be
good.
upcoming week or so.
Uh Jess, I will be
probably Tuesday or Wednesday I'm going
to be traveling.
I'm going to spend a couple days in New
York.
Um
and then I'm going to be going to Palo
Alto and once I'm settled there I'll get
stream set back up.
Update drivers on this machine.
Wait, what?
Huh?
It's going to say fault randomly and we
don't know what It's not drivers, dude.
It was the bad like the seg faults were
not drivers. The seg faults were
literally bad chips.
The [sighs] three boxes that I got for
you guys, I just reinstalled with Ubuntu
26 server.
Latest Nvidia drivers
as well.
>> Yep.
Maybe they're later
Wait.
That's the stuff they should ask you to
do in a job interview.
Huh?
I'm confused.
Wait, did it eat a message?
Does it I don't see anything there that
makes any sense.
Maybe their laptop chips are bet on this
update drivers on this machine.
This is my desktop. I I'm confused,
dude. I don't
That's the actual fun work stuff you get
to do in real life. Uh yeah.
Hello Kieran.
Um I just finished some CUDA stuff and
now I am going to fix up
one environment file if I can.
Uh we're making mazes be state settable
uh in preparation for the next bit of
algorithmic development we're going to
do on puffer that revolves around
setting M's to specific states.
Um delete GPU. actually Vault were not
bad. Like they were way better than
delete code [ __ ]
But um, just the platform just sucks.
Code and dev.
No, this is just on 40 dev. I'm just
going to like this will just this won't
break anything. I don't have to branch
until I start doing the actual algo
changes.
I think realistically like
50 could be the type of thing that I
just knock out in a week or two.
Which would be pretty cool.
Their runtime just sucks. Like
it gave me 30 seconds of T4 GPU compute
time and then it says I'm out of budget
for the day and you can get 10x higher
rate limits for $7 a month.
So
you can get 5 minutes of T4 compute time
for $7 a month.
Hey, so about that. Yeah, it's even
better now.
Be fun.
Tully, I don't even know what the [ __ ]
to do with that article anymore because
like
the space has become so polluted. You
can't write anything positive on that
without these [ __ ] using it to
justify not learning anything.
So,
it's like I'm going to use the tools.
Uh I'm going to try to use them in ways
that don't [ __ ] make a mess of
everything. The people saying that the
coding agents are great and solve
everything are [ __ ] And like
honestly [ __ ] this entire space. That's
basically my entire sum of thoughts on
this at this point.
And like the people that are controlling
this space are absolute [ __ ] So,
yeah.
Reading source code in a new code base.
Um
well, it depends whether the source code
is any good, man. Like go read a couple
of the environment like the pieces of
environment code I've written. Here, go
read this.
Go read this.
minimal.
I wrote this the other day.
Go read this.
The thing is that like they just fail
most of the time.
And like a lot of the time you use them
like, "Oh, okay. I'm going to use this
in this restricted capacity." And they
just like creep crap into your code and
it's really annoying.
So, it's like yeah, you can use them to
like check and prototype stuff really
quickly. So, if you get a result with a
language model, like you can say, "Yay,
okay, cool. Now I know that this is
possible or that this approach works."
But, then all the code is just going to
be total garbage.
Yeah.
It's that's It's like really wonky
vault. I agree.
Also,
94 mining progress update.
We will get 99 sometime early in the
summer.
Damn, it's actually pretty quick.
Mining?
I switched over to doing um
this Cam Tor mine.
This is like 40K an hour.
And the nice thing So, it's not as AFK,
but you never have to like go teleport
to a new location, check like the list
for You just like only ever have to
click once.
And you also bank um
You bank like 10 to 20K prior XP an hour
as well.
Is it 10 to 20k? I think it's like 20k
an hour you bank.
So, this is going to turn into
like 400k prior XP here.
And
yeah, not bad.
Microsoft going to sue for ripping off
Minecraft? What?
What are the real slow AFK skills of
fishing? No, mining is the slowest one,
Vault.
It's mostly the thing is that there just
aren't There some skills that just don't
have decent AFK methods.
Like there's really not anything that's
AFK enough to do while working for
runecrafting at all.
And like hunter and agility
could only technique You could
technically do them with a foot pedal,
but that's basically it.
Same with thieving.
You can actually AFK
well
you can do agility with a foot pedal at
like 30k an hour or 20 something K an
hour.
I actually what I was going to do was I
was going to go play around with the
different shortcuts in the game and see
if I could find one that like you can
just set the camera to only have to just
spam click the thing that's better than
the ones that people were using at the
moment.
Thieving and hunter are quick though.
They're not really that quick.
Like thieving kind of
but hunter is only quick if you're doing
like um
if you're like tick mini ping black
gems.
So, that gets old really quick.
>> You can arguably you can AFK 1/3 of your
RuneCrafting XP
by mining Daeyalt essence
because then it just makes your actual
RuneCrafting 50% faster.
So, that's kind of nice.
But then you still have to do a like
[ __ ] ton of RuneCrafting which is ass.
Hunter is multi-skill.
Uh yeah, so hunter and fishing you can
do together with drift net fishing.
But then you sacrifice then you're not
AFK'ing fishing at all.
I was going to look into whether you can
AFK drift net fish. Like if you just
don't scare the fish into the net and
you just click the nets once in a while.
Like can you still get 30k in each skill
an hour or something?
But I don't think so. I think it's going
to be it would be too distracting.
I still have
Actually um the nice thing you can do
woodcutting and fire making full AFK now
because of bonfires or whatever the
hell. So, you can just like cut all the
logs and then just make a bonfire out of
them
instead of having to drop them or
instead of having to bank them.
That's pretty cool.
I don't know.
Oh, I will say I did um
I did the Inferno a couple more times on
league.
So, I'm now more familiar with the fight
again. I remember some of the stuff I
didn't. I also did
I basically did all of the achievements
in one run on league, which was kind of
funny.
You know, I did like um
you know, melee or never digs.
I did the jab skip one.
Uh I did perfect like uh you know, like
don't like never get hit by jad or zoc,
so perfect whatever.
Oh, when we look at the Inferno, I will
at least have some
additional stuff to say.
All right, let's actually see if we can
get this file done and then I can just
like go enjoy the outside today. It's
nice out.
Dragon trophy?
Well, I think dragon is going to be way
too sweat for me. Like
I think they're only 69k points and you
need 65k for dragon.
So, like at that point you're doing all
the really slow [ __ ] where they've just
arbitrarily said, "Yeah, do the fight
cave 15 times. You know, do um
you know, go get quiver 15 times."
Um and then there are also some that you
just cannot do without a good team. Like
perfect tob is in there.
Cuz you have to get the theater of blood
achievements.
And that's like hard mode achievements,
like
I'd have to do achievements for all
three raids.
But I think I'm going to get ruined, but
I don't like dragon is just like way too
much time. I think that's going to be
double the time.
Do content that would make for fun end
next? I'm down to do that vault.
I don't have If you want to do tob, I
don't have a plate. I do have a scythe.
I don't have a shadow. I do have bow.
I've got basically max range.
I've got eye and
I've gauntlets. No, I don't have
freaking gauntlets yet annoyingly.
I don't think
>> [sighs]
>> That would be rough.
That would be rough.
Maybe with blood fury.
I think nylo room would just be [ __ ]
show though.
Three different versions.
Just old school.
I know Runescape is very fun game.
And it turns out it's very good for RL
environments.
>> There's also like the temporary leagues
game mode now, which is a really, really
good way to learn the game, but only if
you have somebody experienced that
you're playing it with.
>> Yeah, so I think it's now it's just the
um
Okay, so now it's just going to be the
state set stuff.
Which is a lot easier to deal with.
Yeah, and then the only thing we have to
deal with is state sets.
You can almost just copy [ __ ] directly,
but you have this pointer.
If I just make it static, everything
gets easy, doesn't it?
I always wonder whether elevator is a
real person.
So, all these comments are like
what?
>> Wait, is it even I don't think it's
possible to have a total level of 34?
No, it's not, right? Cuz you start with
um
Oh, wait, is that the total starting
level?
That might actually be the the initial
starting level of the game.
You have 10 hit points.
>> All right, we're getting somewhere. I'm
a little sleepy, but we're getting
somewhere.
>> Hey, we can definitely improve this
[ __ ]
>> That's not bad.
What do we need? Just the offset?
This is going to be so much better.
Like it doesn't have all the features
exactly, but it's going to just be so
much better.
Not have to deal with all this crap, you
know?
And then this end will be the same for
learning dynamics, exactly the same.
We don't lose a single feature that we
actually used.
And we're going to be able to use this
for the much more important task of
state sets.
Uh I'm just refactoring the maze
environment.
And um
the idea is that we're going to have it
in a way that um it's going to be easy
to do state sets.
So we're going to be able to use the
maze environment for testing
Hopper 5 algo.
Hopper 5 already?
When I decide to do it,
just messing with an N for now.
Oh, there were just a
the way that the thing was constructed
before,
um
it wanted you to be able to pass max N
size through a binding file,
instead of having it be compile time.
Eventually, we're going to come up with
a way to have like compile time args or
whatever, but
it's just so much easier to have this
all be fixed memory when you get into
state sets.
I mean, it's not going to necessarily
have to be a hard restriction of the
environment. That seems quite limiting,
but I think a lot more things can just
be static men than you'd expect.
And then it's so easy like cuz if you
have if you have state in static
contiguous memory,
then it's literally just one mem copy op
or if it's a struct, like star A equals
star B, you're done.
>> Okay, the popper can eat file, which is
not great.
We'll fix this, but at least now it
compiles.
>> The interview process with Open AI
for my internship.
Um
they invited me to come give a talk
about my research open to the whole
company. And then I chatted with three
or four of their researchers for an hour
apiece and had lunch with them.
And
you know, I like it was just very clear
that I knew the specific area that I was
talking about and I had some ideas that
were relevant to their work and I
already had some prototypes that were
like in the right direction.
It's funny in a sense cuz like
I guess some of my research back then
would be considered quite simple
nowadays, but
everything was such a nightmare to get
working back then by comparison.
I generally think that only stupid
companies do that.
Uh I had an interview one time where
they started asking me like high school
geometry that I hadn't thought about in
I don't know, over a decade.
I mean, the thing is when companies give
you stupid interviews,
like you kind of have to realize that
like if that's how they're qualifying
the people they're hiring,
even if you got the position, you're
going to be working with a bunch of
idiots.
So,
don't beat yourself up too much.
Yeah, OpenAI was awesome when I was
there.
Best place I've ever worked.
Unfortunately, it's not the same place
anymore, but
back then was awesome.
Do you interview people for Buffer?
No, we don't hire people by doing that.
I do pull contributors for
contract-based work,
but we don't really do full-time much
because um
you know, the income for Puffer is
dependent on contracts.
So, if you want to do work with us, it's
mostly like um
you know, make good open-source
contributions,
and then like help us find companies
that would be interested in an area
where you also have capability.
And then we work with um you know, we
work through that to set up contracts
with uh companies in those areas. We've
done stuff with finance. We had some
stuff with gaming,
defense-adjacent stuff a little bit.
A few different things.
Frankly, I really haven't made as much
of an effort as I should to expand the
business side just because like the R&D
on Puffer core is so important
um to the long-term future of RL.
Like
a lot of the applications are just going
to become very, very easy within another
version or two. I mean, they're already
so much easier compared to one or two
versions ago. Like Puffer is just much,
much more powerful than it was.
And um that just means a lot less
fiddling with each new problem.
That's a long-winded answer, but there
you go.
>> How is it then possible to write
simulations?
What do you mean? There are plenty of
sims in biochem.
Not easy.
It's done.
How warm are you at where you're at?
Kind of cold, but I'm going to enjoy uh
a little walk around in
a bit once I finish this.
That looks cool.
Uh
>> Yeah, I don't understand what the [ __ ]
this is doing.
Favorite env?
It's got to be neural memo at least
until we have um
the full RuneScape stuff doing other
things.
>> All right, I got to finish this env and
then maybe we'll look at this if I've
got any brain cells remaining.
Uh oh yeah, Jonas got a nice PR open as
well for a better convent coder.
>> Yeah, so I can move but I can't do
anything because
it's too uh jittery.
Hey Zen, welcome.
We'd have to figure out how fast this
thing is.
Did they release kernel code with this
paper?
>> No, they didn't.
So, they don't have kernels for this?
Naked kernel, it's really simple.
I'd like to understand the op.
Does it make sense for um
So, I guess the main use case that we
would have for this
Let me sort of explain. In fact, I have
a demo in it for you.
Can you take a look at this one cuz this
is like um
This is a pretty big problem for us at
the moment, in fact.
Okay, look at this minimal.h
environment, right? This This a super
super simple environment I wrote the
other day. It's like a hundred something
lines of code.
So, the observations for this, you can
see other agents
and other targets.
You can look at this as a a four-element
token
if you would like.
And this needs to be order invariant.
And we don't have a good way to encode
this order invariant.
And there are a lot of envs that are
like this where like you just have a
bunch of points
and you need some sort of efficient
point encoder. And it's really tough to
come up with a reasonable efficient
point encoder.
The main thing that's always been
difficult for us with attention methods
is just like
you know, Puffer so ridiculously fast um
that it's tough to come up with
attention kernels that don't slow
everything down.
Network it's the same. No, it that's the
opposite bet. So, it's
um
the order that the points are presented
does not matter. So, it's a very strong
inductive bias that you should be
treating each point the same regardless
of where it appears in the observations.
It's when your observations are a set of
points like an unordered set of points.
Points on a grid? Points of anything,
right?
Like
uh for the driving end of there are road
points that represent obstacles and
things. Um the other cars are like
entities, they're unordered set of
entities.
It's a very annoying thing to encode
correctly.
>> What have you tried so far?
I mean, not much frankly. We tried a
little bit to write a couple um
like a couple of custom linear layers
that just apply the same linear layer to
each point and then don't materialize
the intermediates.
But, it was tough to get that to even be
reasonable. Like
mostly what people are doing at the
moment is they're just like they're
reshaping, running linear layers,
materializing a massive block of
intermediates, and then running max
pooling or whatever after a couple of
layers. It's a really dumb architecture
and it's really slow.
You can go look at the the popper drive.
Like the popper drive from 3.0 or the
popper drive separate repo. Like their
arch is the type of thing we're trying
to fix because it completely bottlenecks
training to the point that nothing else
we do optimizing-wise matters if their
net's going to be that slow.
Post it.
Well, but these aren't exactly like
these are not simple contributor issues.
These are kind of open research
problems.
>> I mean having like a good having a
kernel that's just fast enough and does
an intentional op would solve it.
Why is SPS so slow? These are just like
uh the args for this env
as this 4 million parameter policy and
like a bunch of other args.
Forward is the bottleneck.
Well, yes, that means that the network
is
it all the network it it's all the
network processing, which is what you'd
expect.
Uh I don't know if transformers would
make sense. Maybe.
They're nice for relational
codings.
And the tough thing is that all the
implementations I see they're so slow.
What?
Yeah, I know. It's all [ __ ]
Yeah, that kind of vibe is like, well,
the world's gone to nuts and is complete
[ __ ] so why shouldn't I?
But, um,
meh.
You can kind of just ignore all the
idiots and do stuff.
>> All right, let's figure this thing out.
So,
we can probably just
It's probably not that hard, right?
Oh, don't worry. They the poppers can
solve way bigger mazes than that, my
guy. They're They're just sizes are
randomized.
It just so happens that seed is small.
Funny enough, some RL researchers
actually use mazes that look like that.
Well, my keyboard doesn't work, so
that's a problem.
Something's wrong.
What environment should I try the
attention on? I told you the minimal
ends that I just added.
It's in puffer four, it's super simple
to understand how you would split up the
obs.
If it's too complicated to figure out
the custom architecture stuff,
you can just throw the PyTorch version
of it in the slow PyTorch version.
Um
see if that trains better or whatever,
and then we can figure out kernel
speeds.
Oh, I've been live for 5 hours.
How'd that happen?
Well, we'll check this and then uh
we'll call it a day.
Well,
here is what we can do.
Also, star the popper on Get Up if you
haven't already. It's free. It helps us
out a ton.
I'll run this over a while while I go
for a walk.
Should I add replace the nibbler with a
popper?
Oh, man, that'd be so funny if we had
the animation for it.
>> You could make it the Zark projectile.
That'd be funny.
We'll have fun with it once um
once you're ready.
Uh we'll get you a box and everything,
but I'm going to call it for today.
Hopping.
We do have new animations in commission
now.
Um I'm going to call it for today. Uh
it's been a 5-hour stream. It's Sunday.
So, I'm going to go have a nice
afternoon. I'm going to go walk around
for a bit, get some fresh air.
And
yeah, we'll probably be streaming some
stuff tomorrow. We'll see what.
Got a couple little projects around that
need working on. Just see how I'm
feeling.
You all have a nice Sunday. Star the
puffer on GitHub.